In most cases, we do want to keep
our own organizations activity out of our main working view.
Even though IP address does not appear anywhere in the Google Analytics UI,
it is available as a filter field.
In some cases, for larger organizations,
you may use ISP domain or ISP organization.
Before you start on the process for filtering out your internal traffic,
check with your network admins,
and they can guide you on which of these three fields you can use.
As we said though, in most cases,
you will filter by IP address.
So, let's use that example.
When you and your colleagues access the Internet,
in most cases you're assigned an IP address
within a range that corresponds to your organization.
This IP address range will be the basis of our filter.
How do we express a range within one filter?
We certainly don't want to have to create
15 different filters to exclude our internal traffic.
If you're thinking regular expressions, you're exactly right.
We'll make sure that we're in our text view,
not in our main view,
not in our backup view.
Click Filters, Add Filter,
exclude internal IP addresses.
For filter type, there are predefined and custom.
There are some predefined filters that we can use,
including traffic from the IP addresses,
but we're going to go right to custom and configure our filter from there.
We're going to say, exclude, IP address.
This filter pattern is interpreted as a regular expression.
So, we need to generate one regular expression that corresponds to the range.
To do this, we're going to use a utility called
regexip that actually I developed myself for this purpose specifically.
So, let's say that your IP address range is 231.88.156,
1 to 15, generate regular expression.
Here we have our single regex that will only match the IP addresses within the range.
We can copy that, paste that into the filter pattern, and save the filter.
Let's consider how we are going to apply this filter to our main view.
At this point, it's only in the test view.
We don't want to apply the filter to the main view immediately.
We apply it to the test view first to give Google Analytics a little time to process
the filter in the test view and for us to
make sure that the filter is essentially not breaking anything.
So, once you've applied the filter in your test view,
wait a little time,
at least a few days,
maybe 7-10 days and make sure that everything looks okay.
Then, you can copy the same filter to your main view.
We don't have to recreate the filter.
To copy the filter to our main view,
first, we'll select main view.
Notice there are no filters in the main view yet.
We'll click Add Filter.
Now instead of create new filter,
we'll select Apply existing Filter,
select Exclude Internal IP Addresses.
This production server only filter could have been
applied anywhere else within the account.
We have access to that filter as well.
But for now we're just moving over exclude internal IP addresses.
Now, the same filter is applied in our main view.
Just to reiterate, never apply a filter directly to your main view.
Always apply and evaluate a filter first in your test few.
Mistakes happen with filters,
so make sure to follow this best practice.
It's critically important.